BEP-563: add Enhanced Validator Network proposal; (#563)
bnb-chain/BEPs: BEPs/BEP-563.md

To satisfy the network requirement of subsecond block interval, it is very helpful to have validators recognize each other in the network and be close enough to each other. Meanwhile, core consensus messages, such as Block Message and Vote Message, can be propagated under the new network topology with better network quality.

## 4. Specification

### 4.1 Clarification

Before diving deep into the design doc, try to introduce some common concepts first.

#### 4.1.1 Sentry Node

For security purposes, most validators work on the intranet. The Sentry Node is a full node that acts as the validator's public network protection node. It connects to the public network P2P Node and forwards P2P messages.

Since the sentry node is the proxy node of the validator on the public network, the validator needs to register the sentry's NodeID on the chain.

#### 4.1.2 NodeID

NodeID is the public key that's used for encrypting communication. A connection can be established with any P2P peer through IP+Port+NodeID.

### 4.2 NodeID Registration

This BEP will upgrade the StakeHub contract; it needs to add new storage slots to save the validator's NodeIDs.

And there are some rules:

> - NodeIDs update can only be conducted with operatorAddress or consensusAddress.

Reviewer: we should allow agent to do this
https://github.com/bnb-chain/bsc-genesis-contract/pull/568

#### 4.1.2 NodeID

NodeID is the public key that's used for encrypting communication. A connection can be established with any P2P peer through IP+Port+NodeID.

### 4.2 NodeID Registration

This BEP will upgrade the StakeHub contract; it needs to add new storage slots to save the validator's NodeIDs.

And there are some rules:

- NodeIDs update can only be conducted with operatorAddress, agentAddress or consensusAddress.
- Only validators created in stakeHub can add multiple NodeIDs.
- The maximum number of NodeIDs that each validator can register can be changed through governance, 5 by default.

There are two approaches to update the nodes:

#### 4.2.1 Update on web page

1. User connects wallet with operator/agent account in BNB Chain Staking page;
2. User can click AddNodeIDs or RemoveNodeIDs button, and input the NodeIDs that user want to add or remove;
3. It will trigger the wallet to confirm the tx, and you need to sign the confirmed tx;
4. The NodeIDs will be active when the tx is packaged on chain;

> For security reasons, users should use agentAddress to modify NodeID first.

> #### 4.2.2 Update on node start

Reviewer 2: #### 4.2.2 Tips for Updating NodeIDs
To simplify the process of updating NodeIDs, several approaches can be considered:
- The BNB Chain Staking page can offer a user-friendly interface, allowing users to connect their wallets with operator or agent accounts to easily update NodeIDs.
- The BSC client can provide configuration options for adding or removing NodeIDs.

It’s important to note that this process is not part of the consensus mechanism, and detailed instructions will be provided later.

There are two approaches to update the nodes:

#### 4.2.1 New Interfaces of StakeHub contract

The StakeHub system contract will provide two new interfaces to add and remove NodeIDs respectively:

```solidity
    function addNodeIDs(bytes32[] calldata newNodeIDs) external;
    function removeNodeIDs(bytes32[] calldata targetNodeIDs) external;
```

As mentioned above, only three specific addresses of the validator: `operatorAddress`, `agentAddress`, and `consensusAddress` are permitted to call the two interfaces. Calls from any other address will be reverted.

#### 4.2.2 Tips for Updating NodeIDs

To simplify the process of updating NodeIDs, several approaches can be considered:

- The BNB Chain Staking page can offer a user-friendly interface, allowing users to connect their wallets with operator or agent accounts to easily update NodeIDs.
- The BSC client can provide configuration options for adding or removing NodeIDs.

It’s important to note that this process is not part of the consensus mechanism, and detailed instructions will be provided later.

### 4.3 NodeID Verification

- BSC node will query all validator NodeIDs when synced the chain;

> - BSC node will subscribe to AddNodeID & RemoveNodeID event to update the validator->NodeID mapping when importing blocks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- BSC node will subscribe to NodeIDAdded & NodeIDRemoved event to update the validator->NodeID mapping when importing blocks.
```
